
Notes on what XXX developed, what I think falls short, why it falls short, and how it could have been approached.

 - XXX has a highly state- and event-driven architecture

 - It's not a textbook state machine because we don't have the ability to centralise transition rules
   or constraints to govern (permit/block) the movement between states. 

 - That is to say - while we have 'study statuses' which are a state machine-like characteristic, they 
   are freely toggleable by anyone who has a binary 'study/set permission' enabled (yes/no). 

 - The rules for moving studies in and out of statuses automatically are governed by the configuration 
   associated with the platform component that actions the change. For example a hypothetical webhook 
   that moves studies (by running an HTTP API request) into a hypothetical status of 'Returned to Hospital' 
   is constrained - in its own config - to only set that study status when:
      (A) the event was a C-STORE
      (B) the C-STORE was to one of a specified list of target machines
      (C) the previous status was 'Report Added' 

   Which creates a state machine-like effect, but actually the behaviour rules listed above are tied to 
   that one implementation - not to the state controller, which should be centralised. 
 
 - This differs from a true state machine where rules are centralised and conditions like the above conditions
   would need to be met by any user or platform component that tries to move the status into 'Returned to 
   Hospital'.
   
 - This is of course common in the real-world; delivering state machine-like behaviour in a deeply flexible way.
 
 - However I would contest that in highly complex flows - particularly those that are non-linear and may have
   'loops' or  re-entries to previous states (e.g. for re-allocation, or parallelised auditing, etc), this 
   flexibility becomes problematic given the need to often recreate the same rulesets across many different
   components in order to have those rules consistently applied at all stages of, say, a remote teleradiology
   workflow/pipeline. 
   
 - The centralising of the statuses, their transition rules/constraints, plus the events that cause transitions,
   inherently goes a long way in helping engineers in terms of maintainability and preventing challenging 
   scalability. 
   
 - There are other architectural ways you could achieve the same thing. Introducing the concept of pipeline IDs,
   where for example studies that enter through particular gateways or contain particular DICOM tag values, and
   where the pipeline ID associates the study with a set of constraints, filters etc, that could prevent the
   unwanted application of unrelated routine rules/webhooks/dictionaries etc from applying to studies (based on
   those routing rules/webhooks/dictioanries also being tagged with the same pipeline IDs) would help solve 
   many of the above stated challenges. It isolates flows, prevents regressions, and centralises governance of 
   the isolation, and stateful transitions.

 - However that is really conceptually close at that point to being a state machine given the centralising
   of rules and constraints associated with the pipeline - so that might just be a state machine in all but 
   name anyways?
   
 - Kafka - "I am free; that is why I am lost". If studies, workflows, and accounts are free, then to some degree
   they are lost. What is lost? Well, observability, reliance, robustness, control. What you want when it comes 
   to healthcare software is, in my opinion, structured freedom. And that should be determined once, and subscribed
   to. Not re-established each time a new effect or transition is implemented. 

 - All in all the differences are sublte but signficant between true state machine workflow implementations and the
   composed elements (routes, webhooks etc) that we currently use to build events, rules and state transitions. Which,
   after all, are the constituent parts of a state machine. But those are in no way centralised. The only rules 

 - Question: But what about study_status_tags_rules? Isn't that exactly what you're talking about here? This is a config option 
   where admins can specify the conditions under which studies may transition from one status to another status. 
   
   Answer: It is partially, yes. But because it's only a single piece of the jigsaw that *together* would create an *actual* 
   state machine pattern, it's an incomplete implementation of state machining - and in some senses is harmful 
   as a halfway-house. 
   
   Here's why...

   1) Theoretical Problem: 
      
      "Partial Implementation of a State Machine Limits the Utility and Confidence We Can Have in the Study States"

      This is just one element of a state machine. This is a way to govern the permitted transitions into different 
      states but it doesn't relate to the configuration of, or the centralsiation of the configuration of, effects or  
      behaviours that the study should be subjected to. Because of this lack of constraining of behaviours, those 
      states become a bit flimsy in what they represent, because components could be running different effects, network 
      pushes etc, on the study. Each of those components, like webhooks and their filters, are still configured at the 
      per-webhook level, which is more like having state/effect tentacles than a single state machine, because they are 
      still able to be configured to run/not run based on the statuses but we are not really, at the "heart" of the 
      organism, in control of what stateful changes or side-effects can be applied to the study. 
      
      So if we don't centrally control behaviours and effects applied to studies, how meaningful can the transition rules 
      really be? Study_status_tags_rules become more about controlling movement between labels that we hope accurately 
      represent the condition of a study rather than controlling exactly what realworld state equates to labels, meanwhile 
      having to physically reapply a conceptual workflow conditions and constraints via filters and regex etc in every single 
      route, webhook, dictionary. 

      In other words, the lack of centralised control over state-dependent behaviors undermines the meaning and 
      reliability of the states themselves. You need to centralise possible effects to studies not just the transition
      rules between text labels for a state machine's benefits to be properly realised. 

      E.g. if you had also a centralised config option called something like 'study_status_route_rules' where you specified
      *once*, per state (study_status), what routing rule behaviours might be permissible, this would move us significantly
      closer to a truer state machine pattern and would tie the labels (statuses) to actual states rather than relying on 
      engineers to correctly respect all conceptual constraints of a workflow when creating new webhooks and routes etc. 

      But retrofitting state machine elements into a distributed, highly flexible and unconstrained 'state/effect tentacles'
      paradigm is a fucking savage challenge that would be highly challenging and possibly dangerous to introduce, given 
      the dozens of workflows already implemented under a different paradigm. The customer interruptions could be enormous
      so you'd have to do a staggeringly comprehensive and long-running shadow mode, which comes with immense baggage like:
         - regulatory compliance (think purge rules etc - how that impacts ability to create long-running tracking)
         - resource consumption of running a truly parallelised shadow mode
         - advanced statistical analysis and inference
         - need to capture rare events - how to identify these in the first place?
         - would also need some hella big rollback capacity with zero friction in case the kak hits the fan


   2) Practical Problem:
      "Granular rulesets but study statuses are account-wide"
      This can only be applied across an entire customer account. Lets say the customer is a teleradiology firm that 
      themselves has many hospitals/protocols/customers that they report for. In each of these, what rules should be 
      written into the study_status_tags_rules JSON may differ. You'd need to use different statuses for each which 
      is messy if they just want to have the same statuses (e.g. Unreported, Allocated, In Process, Reported, Complete) 
      but different rules governing transitions. Ideally, 1-n sets of study_status_tags_rules should be configurable, 
      where the highest level of distinction is 'workflow/pipeline ID'. But again the problem outlined in point 1, 
      where confidence in what the status labels *truly* represent, is undermined by the decentralising of rules to 
      individual routes, webhooks etc. 

      In other words, the need for different rules for different workflows within the same account is a real-world 
      requirement that's not adequately addressed in the current form. If you have granular rules but study statuses
      are account-wide and span different workflows, the only option currently is to have workflow-differentiating prefixes,
      or similar, in order to target in study_status_tags_rules.

   3) Incompatibility Problem (with platform design that limits usability of study_status_tags_rules):
      Some elements of this design jarr with other design decisions they've made. For example, they show an example 
      configuration where a specific role ID is referenced against user actions for changing a state from A to B. If you 
      wanted to prevent a user from manually setting a status to 'Reported' that works well. But their platform relies on 
      the user role, and auths against that user, when the user actually reports the study, which would mean such a 
      constraint breaks the ability to automatically transition the study into 'Reported' based on their legitimate user input. 

      In other words, this is what happens (and it's an organic process of a lot of software development, it's not a criticism)
      when a platform was not architected as a state machine from the ground up but elements are bolted on later. 

   So what lessons can we take from these 3 problems?

   Lesson 1: Comprehensive Implementation: 
             Encompassing both state transitions and state-dependent behaviors.

   Lesson 2: Flexible Granularity: 
             Allow for workflow-specific configurations within a single account.

   Lesson 3: Consistent Design: 
             Ensuring that state machine concepts are fully integrated with other system behaviors.

   Lesson 4: Meaningful Abstractions 
             Ensuring that states genuinely represent what they claim to, both in terms of transitions and behaviour